From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 64. Recorded live
Thursday, March 21st, 2013. Support for Hanselman
it's as provided by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@tlerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers
of gesture pack a powerful
gesture, recording and recognition system
for Microsoft connect for windows
developers details@gesturepak.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Jared Parsons
about . Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. I'm
on the phone here. I've
got Jared Parsons. How are
you doing great. You are
the creator of . Is
that right? That's right. So
this is a tool that
plugs into visual studio that
tries to make it like
them, or brings them to
visual studio. What is, what
is the goal here? The
goal is to it's exactly
that it's to bring the,
the VIM key experience and
them key buying experience into
visual studio and to make
people who are comfortable with
them. Who've been using them
their whole lives and switching
to visual studio to make
it a better editor for
them. Okay. Now this, this,
this interview should be part
like, convince me why I
should convert to your religion
part. How could you make
visual? Do some visual studio
do something that is show
against its very nature. Okay.
I think those two topics
should be really interesting. So
first like JK, what is
the whole cursor thing? It's
H J K L so
right where your right hand
sits on the keyboard. You
have the core motion sensors.
You have H M J
and K, you got your
up and down and H
now you got your left
and right. So the idea
of them is keep your
hands on the keyboard and
you don't have to be
constantly switching to the mouse.
Your, your editor is right
there. It's all in your
hands. And it's really powerful
and really fast, but don't
use switch modes. I understand
in VIM there's insert mode
and overtype mode is that
right? Or insert mode in
command mode then has a
lot of modes. And when
you start developing them, you
find out about all of
them. Typically though, people use
about three modes. The most
common mode is command a
command or normal mode where
that's, where you have the
HTA K L. So it's,
you have very built in
like movement keys, edit keys.
It's really easy to delete
lines, swap lines, copy things
out, move things around paste,
search and through the file
for various text formats, various
texts items. And then you
have insert mode. Insert mode
is what most people think
of an editor you type,
and it puts in text
for you in certain mode
in them is pretty straightforward.
There's not, there's a lot
of kind of esoteric features
around it, but most people
use insert mode for just
inserting text. And then the
third more popular mode is
visual mode. And visual is
when you start selecting text
in the editor. And so
it's very similar to normal
mode in that you have,
it's more of a command
structure where you're moving the
mouse around and you're yanking
texts and deleting texts, but
it's based off of the
selection more than just, what
if you said delete line,
or it will delete the
selection instead of deleting the
line. And how do I
switch between the modes? Oh,
there's lots of different ways.
Escape is escape. One of
the ways or that like
that, the least popular way
to switch modes. Escape is
getting out of insert mode
is where your most commonly
used escape. You can also
use control close bracket to
get out of escape visual
mode. Earlier. I said, there
was lots of modes. There's
actually three different visual modes.
And really if you get
down to it, they're more
like there's a couple more,
but there's kind of three
types of visual modes, line,
character, and block. So line
mode is when all of
your selections are line based.
So getting to that as
control V I mean, sorry,
shift to the uppercase V
and what that does is
all, it'll do a line
based selection. So it'll select
the current line. And as
you start moving the cursor
around, it'll select the entire
line for, from this where
your cursor started to where
your cursor is now. And
so that's really good if
you're doing, if you've been
coding for 10 minutes, you
realize it's crap. You just
wanna select it all and
delete it. Character mode is
more of what you're familiar
with a mouse selection. It'll
select just a continuous stream
of text and you can
operate on that forwards or
backwards. And block mode is
something I think visual studio
started adding again in 2010,
where you can actually select
columns of text, right? You
can select columns of text
delete, and then you can
even insert on those columns
of text. And when you're
done, one of the most
common things is if you
want to add like a
case or something to select
a column of text, you'll
go to insert mode type
case. And then when you
jump out of him, sir,
mode, it'll actually replicate whatever
edit operations you've done through
every column that you previously
had selected. And do you
have to hold these messages
In your head, right? There's
no like icon that tells
you this is there. The
bottom of the screen and
the status bar will tell
you what mode you're currently
in. And it'll actually, if
you really look at it,
when you do things, like
if you go from block
mode to insert mode, it'll
actually show you all of
the kind of sub modes
that it has in there.
But generally they're down at
the bottom of the screen.
Okay. And do these, does
this really make you faster?
Like, you know, I'm always
arguing with Phil hack about
Devorah cause he switched it
to Varek, but he continues
to type on a keyboard
that's Cordy. So, you know,
he always jokes that like
is a security mechanism.
Right. And you just make
it so no one can
ever use your computer because
you're in  mode. But
you know, I don't see
the dramatic improvement in typing
speed. It just seems to
dig it. And I understand
that VIM people like swear
by this is way more
productive, but is it, or
is it just a preference?
The kind of grid to
fill in some ways, because
I actually used the VAR
act too. Okay. What's wrong
with it? Well, I used
it Oreck and I've never
remapped my keyboard. So my
them bindings, I'm sure people
are hearing me struggle to
think of what keys depressed
and it's because I have,
I can't even look at
my keyboard and tell you
what keeps the muscle memory.
Yeah. It's really muscle memory.
So why is them, so
then why has been better
at, I think it mainly
comes down to the fact
like for me, it's what
you can do. And just
a few keystrokes, like, especially
it's an editor, it has
leads commands, but they're really
geared towards coding. But for
instance, like the percent key
will jump between braces. So
if you're in the middle
of something, you want to
grab a block and switch
it around. It's a real
quick key combination. It's a
delete percent search. The next
one paste done. Well, they
can VSU would say control
a left brace or right
brace. Right. That's how you
switch between braces, right? But
you would have to Initialize
the selection from your key.
You'd have to start a
selection somehow from your keyboard.
Then use the jump brace,
command, hope your language service
didn't, de-select it. Then cut
it. Then reach over to
your arrow keys or a
page up and down, jump
up or use control left
to implement fine. Then you
have to enter in your
constantly the act of kind
of cutting and pasting and
visual studio and searching between
texts. There's a lot of
different things that do it,
and it's not on your
keyboard. Some of it involves
the mouse. If you've worked
in visual studio long enough,
like me, you know what
the key code combinations are,
but they often involve different
windows. And the focus jumps
between the two are not
always crisp. And with them,
it's all designed to, it's
basically designed without a mouse.
So it's all right there.
The searching, the pasting, having
multiple gunk registers. So the
visual studio, when you cut
and paste, you have one
clipboard that you're pasting to
and cutting to in VIM
though, you have roughly 26
places that you can go.
Hmm. I was on the
phone last night with a
friend who's working on a
productivity tool and they wanted
to watch me work. And
I had outlook and Gmail
and Trello open. And when
I was running around in
Gmail, I mentioned to my
friend who also used Gmail
that there's these hotkeys and
how like fundamental hotkeys are
web websites now. And then
I showed him like, you
know, GI go to inbox,
which seems totally intuitive. And
J K, which happens to
be like the standard for
going up and down on
the web now and went
through kind of a standard
inbox, zero operation, and cleared
my inbox in Gmail and
realized that even though there's
a mate, there's like 40,
50 keystrokes that you could
learn key bindings in, in
Gmail. I think I used
seven. And then I realized
that that's like the limit
of my ability. That's all
I can remember. You know
what I mean? But those
are the ones that I
use. So when I hear
about them, I'm like, Oh
man, you know, control K
control Q hit, left shift,
you know, understand on your
foot. It's it seems impossible.
I only have enough room
to hold five or six,
maybe seven key things to
remember. Am I not smart
enough to do him? Absolutely
not. I'm absolutely not smart
enough. I'm glad that you
finally Not, not smart. And
you're definitely, so them, the
thing, the set of commands
you can do in VIM
is daunting. If you, it
has an extensive help documentation
system and it is baffling
sometimes when people are like,
how close are you to
doing all of them? And
I'm like, no, where close,
like it's this is, bafflingly
like complex in places. But
most people really settled down
with just a few core
commands. I mean, my, I
can probably list my most
common commands or delete yank
search and insert. And those
are an jump word. Those
are kind of like five
or six core commands that
I use daily all the
time. And, but like you
said, and that makes, I
think that makes me a
much more productive programmer because
when you really get down
to it, it's navigating your
code, insert in your code
and effectively moving things around.
Definitely, definitely VIM needs. I'm
sure there's something out there
that does this. But like
if ever there was a
thing that needed like achievements
where you could like build
your gamer score based entirely
on using him. That was
like, I know there's some
games like learn them by
playing multiplayer, dungeon games and
stuff like that. But yeah,
I would need, I would
need to be encouraged to
learn more than five or
six, I think. Yeah. Well,
it's one of those things.
When you start using it,
you get comfortable with just
a few commands and most
of the VIM tutorials out
there, if you search for
them tutorial, there are plenty
out there and they will
just introduce you to the
core commands and that's enough
to make you productive. And
it's when you start talking
to other people and they're
like, Oh, you didn't know
that you could do this
to make that command easier.
And that's kind of where
people start to grow. But
I still, when I talk
to most people, most people
really kind of are hardcore
down into a small number
of commands. I actually used
to think I was more
of a, when I started
writing visit them. VSM a
long time ago. I I'd
kind of pegged myself as
a moderate them user. And
then people started filing bug
reports and I quickly realized
this like, wow, I'm gonna
have to knock myself down.
A few notches spoke. Reports
are like, like, This is
not the way it's supposed
to behave because it behaves
this way. Yes. I mean,
you get them as such,
like I said, it's a
very focused edit, and people
get so ingrained into muscle
memory. I mean, I get
bugs where it's like, I
inserted this, I deleted a
word hit undo. And the
cursor was one place to
the left of where Shouldn't
you just like give up
at that point, wouldn't you
just like, there's no way
you're gonna be able to
fix that. Right. Because you'd
fix it and it would
break something else That's no,
no, no. Now I have
to have it right now.
I'm like, if it's not
right, like people won't use
it. Like people, them having
cursor position is something that
it's really easy to get
wrong. And especially with undos
and redos, but it's, it's
fundamental to how people code
them because they're so used
to knowing, like when I
yanked this, the crucial jump
here, then I can hit
paste. It'll put it before
the curse or after the
cursor. It's very fundamental. Yeah.
I see. I somehow I
imagine that as being like,
if you were trying to
write a Mario brothers clone
and it didn't behave, like
the way we all remember
the Mario brothers to work,
you like jumped onto the
internet. Then I landed, I
didn't land. Right. And I
couldn't do my combo. It's
like, Oh man. Right. It's
all about combos. Isn't fam
isn't it. Exactly. And macro
recording, especially. So one of
the other things, one of
the most powerful things of
them is macro recording. You
can actually, by pressing QR,
you can use one of
the anchor registers that I
talked about to a record
and edit session. And so
if you're doing this repetitive,
that it, like you need
to edit text file and
you want to delete the
first word and pay something
else in. You can record
yourself doing it once and
then replay it against all
of the different lines in
the file or a subset
of the lines. And with
macro recording, cursor position is
extremely important because it's, depending
upon every single time you
execute this command, the cursor
will go to the exact
position necessary for the next
command to complete success. Did
Mac macro recording still in
visual studio 2012? Or is
that one of the controversial
things that got pulled? That
is one of the controversial
things that got pulled It's
just scandalous. Yep. It was,
it was a hard cut.
I remember when they told
me they were going to,
when I was, I was
actually working on one of
the teams and I said
they were going to do
it. And I was very
shocked that they thought they
could do it and that
they pulled it off. But
it did impact a lot
of people. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was quite a burden
in terms of maintenance. Cause
it was visual basic for
applications behind it. Presumably. Yes.
Well it was, it was
a lot of things and
it was a bit of
the VB code base, a
bit of VBA and a
bit of always one release
behind. And so it was
a significant maintenance burden for
the team. And so it
was a hard cut, but
they had some justification. So
if I, and no offense
to anyone who has a
particular religion, but if I
convert to your religion, Jared,
okay. You know, is it
going to be welcoming to
me? Or am I just
going to have people who've
like read farther into the,
of him that are going
to like look down on
me. As I struggle to
learn this new incantation, I
find that the VIM community
is actually really open because
everyone wants to tell you
about their piece of black
magic that makes their life
better. And so it's not,
you're doing it wrong or
whatever. They're like, no, have
you heard about this cool
thing? Like every time I
like talk to like a
person about them and when
I seen them in the
real world, it's never like,
Oh, you did this batter.
This is a terrible, I
do things they're always like,
did you know, you can
do this. It's I find
it to be a very
positive community. Somewhat went up.
Most men ship sometimes. But
overall it's just a bunch
of people saying, Oh man,
there's this, you can really
like make that faster by
doing this motion instead of
that motion. It's, it's a,
I don't know. I find
it to be a very
fun community. Oh, ultimately I
think that's exemplary of a
community that's, that's healthy and,
and fun. I mean, I
always, I always use religion
as the, as the metaphor
for these kinds of things.
Because from my perspective, religion
is something that you're really
excited about. And if someone
has a thing, whether their
religion is ReSharper or whether
it's an actual religion, they're
always going to be like,
have you heard the news?
Have you heard the news?
You know? And then they'll
tell you all about their
thing. And that's kind of
what I do is when
I find something I'm totally
jazzed about. I want everyone
to know. So presumably the
same as is true with,
with VIM people who just
want the world to see
the light and that light
is him. Exactly visual studio
though. Unfortunately creates a bit
of a paradox because it
introduces polytheism because you have
people who both love them
and research sharper, and they
want the two religions to
be compatible with each other.
So let's talk about it.
Let's talk about addons and
then we'll talk about ReSharper.
So you have an add
in that runs in any
version of visual studio that's
not expressed, right? Correct. Anything,
2010 and later. Okay. 2010
and 2012. And it's the
same ad in, or it's
compiled differently for the two
It's the same Adam it's
compiled once. And it runs
in all of the versions
of visual studio and it
even runs in a visual
studio, has what they call
the isolated shell. And some
people productize the isolated shell.
Like for instance, Atmel studio
is a visual studio, shell
implementation, which is for embedded
device development. And it runs
in there as well. And
this is something you just
do on the side. This
is not like a business.
Yup. Now it's just something
I do in my spare
time. And how long have
you doing this? Oh, Ever,
probably since 2000 and 2000.
And is this open source?
If you get hit by
a bus, what happens? It's
completely open source. It's a,
it took a lot, it
took a bit of doing,
but it's open source. I
have a good set of
community contribute contributions to the
project. So it's all under
a patchy too. And what,
what took, what took time?
Like why does it matter?
Is it because it's a
moonlighting thing? Yeah. So when
I, when I started this
in 2009, I've actually released
a couple of things and
an open source at Microsoft
and it's gotten progressively better,
but I've usually at the
time been kind of pushing
what was established at the
time. The first thing I
released was like key invoke,
interrupt, assistant, and back in
like 2006 or seven. And
that was kind of a
crushing thing. It was, it
took about six months and
of me like working and
working work. And eventually I
gave up and thought I
would never get it released.
And then the CLR team
had an interest in shipping
it. And one of their
PM's did a lot of
work for me. Got it
released. And then a few
years later, when I started
to work on the SFM,
one of the big motivations
at a time, the SM
actually kind of started out
as a toy. It was
just, we were working on
a visual studio, 2010. They
had a brand new editor.
That's the WPF editor and
VM clones that I've been
using the past and work
anymore because our shims weren't
working and it was in
the nibble of development. So
no one had access to
the bits, but us and
I was just kind of
bored one night and was
like, yeah, I want at
least my little three commands
back that I like. And
I wrote it and then
it kind of taught, like
I showed it to a
few people and people took
it from me and started
using it. So then I
had to support it. And
at that time, people actually
started pushing me to release
VSM for more, for the
fact that it was good
samples for people who wanted
to write visual studio, editor
extends. Wasn't it also an
exercise for what, what is
literally possible in the editor?
Because one of the things
that I think is interesting
about it, whenever I hear
about stuff like code rush,
or we sharper or via
spam, I'm thinking to myself
here is a complete re-imagining
about how this is supposed
to behave. And I always
presume that at some point
you're going to hit a
limitation of what's possible. And
then you'll literally just, Nope,
we got to stop now.
Sorry, can't catch that keystroke.
Or can't, you know, it
really wants to behavior and
I really want that one
and never the Twain shall
meet it's over, you know,
good times are over. It
is, but I'm just not
very good at admitting defeat.
Especially one thing you mentioned
there, keystrokes that is the
ultimate challenge. Raymond shin wrote
a blog post called like
shoots and ladders where I'm
trying to get the keystroke
that you're trying to get
someone to do this. And
then you're going to build
a wall and I'm gonna
build the ladder taller than
you keystrokes and visual studio
is the ultimate games of
walls and ladders. Like everyone
is fighting for the keystrokes.
And I have, I know
vis the SM tries to
catch keystrokes, at least I
think 12 or 13 different
ways Really just to make
sure you don't miss them
all. Yes. And their visual
studio has a mechanism for
handing keystrokes and then a
book of exceptions. And it
was, and it's very challenging
to find them all. And
I constantly email the guys
in charge of it and
show them the new tricks.
But I thought that the
new editor was supposed to
be pretty straight forward. You
have like, you know, key
down and that's it. What,
what, what, where, who else
could be stealing keystrokes from
you? So the New editor
itself, so visual studio has
a very, the new editor
is very well factored. So
you just have the WPF
editor and the WPF editor
itself is very beautiful. I
love it. And I actually
have, the estimate is actually
factored into, I talked to
the editor and another part,
which talks to visual studio
on top of it. But
visual studio is a 20
year old product. At least
then you have people who
are still overriding pre-process message.
You have people who are
hooking windows messages, who are
people, various feature opponent features.
Yes. Are these features in
visual studio? Like you might
say, Oh, the server Explorer
really wants that message and
they're cheating in the way
they ask for it or
whatever. I'm just making something
up. But you know what
I'm saying? Yeah. A good
example is the debugger. If
you're debugging and 64 bit
mode, visual studio, doesn't support,
edit and continue in 64
bit mode. And there's one
part of that bugger that
actually will override pre-pro I,
I can't remember. I believe
it's pre-process message. And what
they do is when they
override it, they are trying,
if they see a keystroke
come while you're debugging and
in 64 bit mode, they
pop up a message box
that says, can't edit the
buffer, but I'm not trying
to edit the buffer because
you're just trying to make
room to move around. And
I actually, that's a, that's
a good one. I have
the minute dirty secret. I
had to use reflection to
beat that one. Oh, I
think, I think most people
who are listening have to
use reflection every day. So
I would not feel bad
about the one time you
had to use reflection. And
so I, but yeah, and
that one I had to
like dig in there, find
that component and figure out
when it would run and,
and certain my trick into
it to get it, to
let me have the keystroke
in that particular case, How
often is visual studio trying
to put the cursor somewhere
and then you're trying to
move it. And then you
get flickering where it's like,
no, I really want it
over here. And then you
slam the cursor back to
where you want it to
be like, are you keeping
a whole parallel universe of
your own theoretical text editor?
And then you're trying to
make visual studio reflect what
you believe reality is, or
do you let visual studio
holds? I led visual studio
hold in terms of editor,
state, like where's the cursor,
what is the selection? I
let visual studio hold all
of that. And it's really
critical that I do that
because one of the things
I wanted to do with
Fiesta and was, I wanted
to, I want people who
are comfortable with them to
be comfortable with the SFM,
but I also want visual
studio to be awesome. Like
I want to tell a
sense if people have smart
tips and things like that,
I want the cursor position
and selection to be correct.
So all of these things
continue to pop up. I
don't, if I start holding
like a side state from
the editor then, and don't
give the editor to the
true state, then those features
stop. Right? So the more
you've tried to fool a
visual studio, the more you're
going to basically turn off
the features that are useful
about it. Exactly. Can you
still get IntelliSense and things
like that and what mode
in VSPN would I get
things in tech intelligence And
it's so IntelliSense works exactly.
Like if you're just using
visual studio, when you're an
insert mode and you're typing
code IntelliSense will pop up
exactly as if the SFM
was not installed and there
have been, and it does
actually create a bit of
a conflict because there, how,
how I should interpret keystrokes
when IntelliSense is up and
them actually has this thing
called Omni completion, which is
very similar to IntelliSense, but
they have a different name
for it. And I have
tended to their experiences. I
don't feel as good as
officials. Well, I mean, tell
us since is different from
do your best to auto-complete
anything that looks familiar Exactly.
And what I've done in
some cases I've broken from
standard behavior in terms of
how keystrokes work when IntelliSense
is up. Because I, the
majority feedback I've gotten is
led Intel since when and
tell, since it's the coolest
thing about visual studio, make
it as good as possible
and natural. Yeah. That's an
interesting one. I had a
lot, I've had a lot
of interesting conversations with people
because for example, I use
sublime text as one of
my text editor replacements. Basically
I have three editors, visual
studio notepad too, because if
you always use it for
years and now more recently
supplying texts and sublime text
has an IntelliSense like behavior.
That is basically like you
said, Omni completion, which is
the, if I've seen a
token I've seen anywhere ever
before, try to try to
auto complete that, which is
not intelligence, it's dumb sense,
but it's right. Often enough
that it feels like magic.
Exactly. And the VIM actually
has a mode exactly like
that, where you can hit
control in and get it
to show you, for instance,
like basically look at the
word to the left and
find all of the words
in the open doc set
of open documents, which are
a super set of that
words and display them to
tell us, right. And I
have actually implemented that. And
if you want to do
control in, it'll pop it
up and insert mode. But
in general, though, people want
to see like visual studio
and tell with sentence. And
so that's what we give
them. No, I thought when
I hit escape and go
like con colon, w Q
bang, I'm into like a
little command line that exists.
Yes. That is the other,
probably the most popular mode
outside of visual normal and
insert it's command. Like some
people call that command mode.
Some people call it command
line editing mode, but that
certainly exists. And where is
that? Do you make your
own little buffer and hover
over the command line? Or
where does that go? So
that goes in, I've implemented
as kind of a margin.
So like if you have
the break point margin, which
is just kind of on
the left side of your
screen and the scroll, the
command line margins just on
the bottom of your screen.
And so that's where, when
you're using the estimate, it'll
still it'll replicate in many
ways, the status bar of
like GM or something, it'll
show you what mode you're
currently in. And when you
hit colon, it basically pops
up an editor box right
there so that you can
type in the command line
mode and run them. Okay.
So that, that is a,
you call it a margin
indicating that a margin is
a, is an actual thing
that visual studio knows about.
And you're using that feature
as it is. You just
happened to be doing one
that's bottom line rather than
left aligned. Exactly. That's cool.
Is that owner draw or
they have the idea that
you could have text in
a margin. They basically allow
you, they just have, when
you do a margin as
an admin, you just say,
I want this much base
and they give you a
canvas. And I, in this
particular case, I just throw
up, I have a little
XAML control, which switches between
a couple of little things
that people like, and it's
pretty standard. There's no owner
draw or issue like that.
I'm by no means a
WPF expert. And I, And
I can control, scroll and
make sizes bigger and small,
and it looks natural and
it has their same texts
as my, and at the
same metrics as the kind
of text I'm using. Yes,
that's cool. I do have
some Fimian issues. I need
to work out in 2012,
but in general it gets
the expectation that people want.
Yeah. Yeah. When you change
themes in 2012, and now
in 2012 update to 2012
dot two, they've added the
blue theme back. A lot
of people don't realize that
after all of the gnashing
of teeth, about the gray
theme, they gone and added
the blue theme back. And
no one cares Well, if
they two's not officially out
yet. So I, some people
are reluctant to update it
to it. Yeah, yeah, you're
right. It is. As of
the time of this recording,
it's a CTP four or
something like that, but I
thought it was cool that
they added the blue one,
but now I'm noticing that
ultimately things will look weird
until you restart, because a
lot of different admins aren't
ready for that kind of
dynamic theme changing. Yes. And
responding to theme changed in
an ad. It is, it's
not well I've, I've had
trouble finding documentation on it.
And I've been fortunate enough
to find some of the
devs involved in it and
they've helped me out there,
but there's still it's especially
w one of the problems
you have is if you
have an ad in which
works on 2010, which has
no theming, and then you
have to load it in
both 2010 and 12, it
can get a little complex
to keep your theming. Correct.
How often are you updating
this? This is signed. Is
this signed and up on
official studio gallery? It's on
the visual studio gallery. I
update, I T the cadence
I try to have is
a planned release one every
two months. And I do
unplanned releases as dictated. If
someone finds a critical bug
and it's, I deem it
to be impactful, then I
will do a point release
as soon as I can
get it out the door
and get confirmation that it
works. But I tried to
pay plan releases every once.
I've tried a lot to
get it to one month,
but that usually kind of
stresses too hard. And so
it usually comes out to
about two months. Sure. And
that would also make it
your primary hobby, which is
a big deal. Exactly. And
that back to what we
were talking about in the
middle, where we said ReSharper
and getting along with resharpen,
we're using ReSharper as the,
kind of the canonical example,
because between ReSharper and code
rush, everyone's got some add
on that will conflict with
another add on. And sometimes
I think ReSharper and add
ons, like it get unfairly
blamed because it's like something,
something crashed. Well, I've got
ReSharper and that's just saying,
I've got something, that's a
third party thing. How do
you get along with third
party controls? And if something
crashes, how do I know
if it's via spam or
if it's visual studio that
crashed. So I try to
get along as well as
possible. Third party controls, for
instance, ReSharper is enormously popular.
And there is a significant
number of people who want
both the STM and ReSharper
in there. And when it
comes right down to it,
people usually pay money for
ReSharper. And if you're going
to kick out an add
in, you can kick out
the one you paid for
the one you didn't pay
for. So I kind of
do my best to exceed
to them. And I do
have to ReSharper. I have
to play a lot of
tricks with Code. That's like,
ah, you're in my room
with me, we shot her.
I'm going to do different
things. Exactly. One of the
big things is people resharpen
has this great feature for
refactoring. Like when you, you
can do a like live
template editing where basically you
can like click on a
local click rename and it
will actually open up when
you type it'll both change
the local that you have.
You're currently editing in every
use of that local in
the method simultaneously as you're
typing. And to do that,
it actually creates the conflict
because they select the text
that they're editing. And so
the SMC is a text
select, and it's like, Oh,
I should go into visual
mode now because you selected
something and people will turn
off. If I, if I
do that, when they're trying
to edit live template, they'll
turn off. Yes, ma'am Hi.
So they're actually programmatically selecting
it so they can do
their job. And VSPN thinks
that a user initiated action,
a call. Exactly. And so
I have actually a pretty
significant component, which they do
some other things to the
buffer when they're doing refactoring.
And what I do is
I'm constantly looking for that
cue to be added to
the buffer. And I have,
actually, what I've done is
when I said, there's lots
of modes in them, I
added a, a mode and
the motives called external edit,
meaning that ReSharper visual, assists,
snippets, something that's happening, and
we should do nothing to
interfere with it. And so
when I see a live
template pop up, the SPM
basically dropped, throws his hands
up in the air and
says, I'll just stay out
of the way for now.
And as soon as the
template kind of gets finished
editing, and they remove their
markers from the buffer, then
bam, it goes right back
into insert mode and usually
provides a pretty seamless experience.
Very cool. Well, I mean,
I think I can speak
for the community, even those
that don't use VIM, that
what you're doing and what
people are doing, single individuals
like, like Mads and like
yourself that have admins that
are cared about and loved
and appreciated by presumably thousands.
I mean, how many people
have downloaded your I'm almost
up to 100,000 now. I
think I was Right at
the border. Yeah. During the
community, you're doing the community
service and we all appreciate
that you care enough to
make an editor that we,
that we either love to
use or are forced to
use depending on how you,
how you feel about visual
studio, a better place to
live. So on behalf of
everybody, we appreciate, well, I
Also wanna say thanks to
community, because there are tons
of bugs. I never could
have fixed without like awesome
users. And because people have
so many setups, like I
have virtual machines, like one
with visual assist, one with
ReSharper and a bunch of
other different combinations, but people
email me and they'll say
a bug report. And I'm
like, what do you have
installed in your machine? And
they'll send me a list
of sometimes like 15 extensions.
Hmm. Wow. So it's like,
I don't know how to
replicate that. That's when I
do that, don't do that.
Yeah. And I've had other
people, there were like VSA
and the slow and I'm
like, well, what are you
doing? And I've actually had
very significant dialogue with just
random people who filed bugs
on GitHub. And if they
had not put up with
me and all of the
things where I'm like, could
you try this, try that,
or candid them, the bug
builds and then had them
send me some information back.
It's a two way street.
The fact that you cared
enough to, to, to have
a dialogue, you're both to
be commended. So people can
just go and Google with
a bang or whatever, and
a doctor go and find
themselves a VSM and they'll
have no trouble finding it.
Absolutely. Or you can just
open up extensions and updates
and visual studio type in
VFM and there you go.
Even better. You don't have
to browse. Thank you very
much, Jared Parsons for chatting
with us today. Thank you
very much. Thanks for having
me. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes. We'll
see you again next week.